Let's connect our node express to our mongodb database and for that, let's go back to our mongodb
cluster here and click connect
and once you click connect here, this window should open and there you can choose how you want to connect.
Now we will connect our application, so connect your application, we're using the latest driver
and then in the end you can copy that address, by the way you can also manually spell, write down that
address if you're using a local server, that should do the trick
though checkout the quickStart guide in the official docs if you are using your local mongodb server.
So I will copy this address here and we connect our app to mongodb in the app.js
file on the backend. Somewhere here at the top let's import mongoose because mongoose is our package
we use for working with the database,
so we also use it for connecting to it,
so let's import mongoose here and then very early, maybe here after we created the app, we can run mongoose
connect.
Now connect takes a string as an argument and that string is just what you just copied,
so mongodb plus server then this entire thing, so this should work
and now password of course needs to be replaced with your password you generated, so that password which
I stored in that same file,
this one, let me grab it and add it here.
Let's replace that entire password thing including lower and greater than signs with our password.
Now here it's saying Max user because I named my user Max,
so this part here will be different for you url if your user is not named Max which it probably
isn't
but we have that we've got all the logic in place to connect to mongodb whenever your node server
starts and mongoose will manage that connection for you, so you don't have to worry about that here.
Now with that, we can close that, we are now ready to use that connection.
Now one important thing, that connect method here will actually return a promise where you can for one
output something if everything is working,
so we can console log connected to database here but we can also catch any potential errors
and whilst I won't really handle them here,
you should of course be aware that things can go wrong.
So here I will console log connection failed and that could occur because maybe your mongodb server
is down, your firewall is blocking access, anything like that.
So now you see I restarted this and it's saying connected to database,
so this seems to work,
now we can use that connection to finally use our post model which we created with the help of mongoose
to save data to the database.